.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" (C) Copyright 2012 Danny Edel <mail@danny-edel.de>,
.\"
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH DSPDFVIEWER 1 "November 15, 2012"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
dspdfviewer \- Dual-Screen PDF Viewer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dspdfviewer
.RI [ options ] " filename"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Dual-Screen PDF viewer is intended for presentations created with the
.B latex-beamer
class. Its purpose is to display the left half of a page on the audience's screen
(which will most commonly be a projector) and the right half on your "private"
screen (think: the notebook you carried to the presentation site).
The basic idea is that you will display personal notes and information to
help you with your presentation on your personal screen, while the audience
sees only the PDF they are supposed to see.

On the secondary screen you will see three clocks:
A "wall clock", a "presentation" clock and a "slide" clock.

The wall clock in the bottom left corner that display current time of day,
the presentation clock (labeled "Total") counts the time you spent since
you started the presentation, and the "slide" counter (bottom right)
displays the time you spent on the current slide.

The clocks don't start the second you launch the program, the idea behind that
behaviour is that many people have a "title" slide active long before the audience
even arrives.

Once you use the next/previous slide commands, the clock starts. If you want to
start the clock, but still display the title slide, just press "previous"
(for example, Up Arrow or Right Mouse Button) on the title slide.
.\" .PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
.\"\fBdspdfviewer\fP is a program that...
.SH OPTIONS
This program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes ('-').
A summary of options is included below.

Note for options of type <bool>: They take true, false, 0 or 1 as arguments.
For example, \-\-use-second-screen false can be shortened to \-u0.

.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.

.TP
.B \-f, \-\-full-page
Use the presentation program with a standard PDF, that is display the full page
on the primary AND secondary monitor. The secondary screen still contains timers
and thumbnails to help you with your presentation, unless you disable them using
the options below.

.TP
.B \-u, \-\-use-second-screen <bool>
Controls whether the program actually works as a dual-screen viewer.
If you only have one screen, but still want to use the cache features, you can set
this option to false. If the window ends up on the wrong display, you can still use
the switch command (see below).

What comes out on the primary screen depends on whether you use the -f Option: -u0 -f
results in a simple full-screen PDF viewer, while -u0 without -f still splits the page
in half and outputs only the left frame.

.TP
.B \-\-prerender-previous-pages <n>
When jumping to slide m, also pre-render the slides (m-n)..(m-1) (default 3)

Note: If you set this to zero, you will not get a thumbnail for the previous page
rendered before you have visited it.

.TP
.B \-\-prerender-next-pages <n>
When jumping to slide m, also pre-render the slides (m+1)..(m+n) (default 10)

Note: If you set this to zero, you will not get a thumbnail for the next page
rendered before you have visited it.

.TP
.B \-a <bool>, \-\-presenter-area <bool>
Show (true, 1) or hide (false, 0) the presenter's area on the second screen.
If this is set to zero, the following options will have no effect.

.TP
.B \-t <bool>, \-\-thumbnails <bool>
Show (true, 1) or hide (false, 0) the thumbnails on the second screen.

.TP
.B \-w <bool>, \-\-wall\-clock <bool>
Show (true, 1) or hide (false, 0) the wall clock on the second screen.

.TP
.B \-p <bool>, \-\-presentation\-clock <bool>
Show (true, 1) or hide (false, 0) the presentation clock on the second screen.

.TP
.B \-s <bool>, \-\-slide\-clock <bool>
Show (true, 1) or hide (false, 0) the slide clock on the second screen.

.SH CONTROLS
You can use the following controls while
.B dspdfviewer
is running:
.TP
.B Left mouse button, Wheel down, Down Arrow, Right Arrow, Page Down, Return, N, F
Go to next page
.TP
.B Right mouse button, Wheel up, Up Arrow, Left Arrow, Page Up, Backspace, P
Go to previous page
.TP
.B B, . (period)
Toggle blanking of the audience screen
.TP
.B G
Go to specific page (a number entry window will pop up)
.TP
.B Home (also called Pos 1 on some keyboards), H
Go to first page and 
.B reset the presentation and the slide clock to zero
.TP
.B Escape, Q
Quit viewer
.TP
.B F12, S
Switch primary and secondary screens
(Use this if the audience sees your 'note' side instead of the actual
presentation)

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR /usr/share/doc/latex-beamer/beameruserguide.pdf.gz
from the 
.B latex-beamer
package.

Note: Use "show notes on second screen=right" because
.B dspdfviewer
assumes that the right half of the page is the notes.
